[CUBRIDMAN-297] English version of PL intro and PL/CSQL chapter (#630)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/pl/plcsql_overview.rst

---------------
Overview
---------------

.. _stored_proc:

Creating Stored Procedures/Functions
=====================================

PL/CSQL is used to create stored procedures and stored functions.
The behavior of the stored procedure or function to be created is described by
writing PL/CSQL code after the AS (or IS) keyword in the CREATE PROCEDURE or CREATE FUNCTION statement.

::

    <create_procedure> ::=
        CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] PROCEDURE [schema_name.]<identifier> [ ( <seq_of_parameters> ) ]
        { IS | AS } [ LANGUAGE PLCSQL ] [ <seq_of_declare_specs> ] <body> ;
    <create_function> ::=
        CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] FUNCTION [schema_name.]<identifier> [ ( <seq_of_parameters> ) ] RETURN <type_spec>
        { IS | AS } [ LANGUAGE PLCSQL ] [ <seq_of_declare_specs> ] <body> ;

In the above syntax, the *body* of a stored procedure/function contains PL/CSQL statements.
The declaration section, *seq_of_declare_specs*, declares variables, constants, exceptions, etc.,
that will be used within the execution statements.
For more details on these syntax elements, refer to :doc:`Declarations <plcsql_decl>` and
:doc:`Statements <plcsql_stmt>`.

> Stored procedures/functions are always executed with Auto Commit disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stored procedures/functions are always executed with auto-commit disabled.
```

> This applies even if the Auto Commit feature is enabled in the calling session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This applies even if the auto-commit feature is enabled in the calling session.
```

* When it is difficult or impossible to determine the SQL statement at the time of program development
* When executing statements that are not supported by Static SQL, such as DDL statements

In the example below, the new table name includes a procedure parameter,
which means it cannot be determined at the time of program development
and is only decided at runtime.
Additionally, the `DROP TABLE` and `CREATE TABLE` statements are DDL statements,
which are not supported by Static SQL.

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE collect_athlete_history(p_name VARCHAR)
    AS
        new_table VARCHAR := p_name || '_history';
    BEGIN
        EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'drop table if exists ' || new_table;
        EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'create table ' || new_table || ' like history';
        EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'insert into ' || new_table || ' select * from history where athlete = ?'
        USING p_name;
    END;

Writing Rules
==================

When writing identifiers, reserved words, comments, and literals, follow the rules of
:ref:`SQL writing rules <lexical_rules>` within :ref:`Static <static_sql>`/:ref:`Dynamic <dyn_sql>` SQL.

> The rules for writing PL/CSQL statements outside of Static/Dynamic SQL mostly follow the same rules,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules for writing PL/CSQL statements outside of Static/Dynamic SQL mostly follow the same rules,
```
```suggestion
The rules for writing non-static/dynamic SQL statements in PL/CSQL mostly follow the same rules, but there are some exceptions.
```

> The rules for writing PL/CSQL statements outside of Static/Dynamic SQL mostly follow the same rules,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules for writing non-static/dynamic SQL statements in PL/CSQL mostly follow the same rules, but there are some exceptions :
```

Author: Static/Dynamic 으로 써 오던 것이 있어서 (고유명사) 그 부분만 바꾸어 반영하겠습니다.

> with a few exceptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Unlike SQL, the `#` symbol cannot be used in identifiers. That is, identifiers must consist only of English letters (uppercase and lowercase), Korean letters, digits, and the underscore (`_`).
* Even if enclosed in double quotes, square brackets, or backticks, special characters cannot be used in identifiers.
  Only English letters (uppercase and lowercase), Korean letters, digits, and underscores (`_`) are allowed.
* Bit string literals cannot be used.

.. rubric:: Examples of Allowed Identifiers

::

    a
    a_b
    athleteName2
    "select"        -- Reserved word enclosed in double quotes

.. rubric:: Examples of Disallowed Identifiers

::

    1a              -- Starts with a digit
    a@b             -- Contains special character
    athlete-name-2  -- Contains special character
    [a@b]           -- Special characters not allowed even within [ ]
    select          -- Reserved word

PL/CSQL reserved words are listed in the table below.

> In PL/CSQL statements outside of Static/Dynamic SQL, the words in the table below cannot be used as identifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Non-static/dynamic SQL statements, the words in the table below cannot be used as identifiers
```

Author: Static/Dynamic 으로 써 오던 것이 있어서 (고유명사) 그 부분만 바꾸어 반영하겠습니다.

| UPDATE            | USING              | UTF8               |                    |
+-------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+

The CREATE PROCEDURE/FUNCTION statement for creating PL/CSQL stored procedures/functions goes through
a separate PL/CSQL syntax check, not the general SQL syntax check,
and a different set of reserved words is applied.
However, up to the AS/IS keywords, the general SQL syntax check also applies, so the
:ref:`CUBRID reserved word list <reserved_words>` is also in effect there.

In the following example, the parameter name `add` is not a PL/CSQL reserved word,
but since it is a CUBRID reserved word, it causes a syntax error.

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE test_cubrid_reserved_word(add INT) AS
    BEGIN
       NULL;
    END;

    ERROR: invalid create procedure
      ... ...

Among the list above, `AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION` is a reserved word that is pre-included for functionality
to be added in the future.

.. _types:

Data Types
==================

In Static/Dynamic SQL, all :ref:`data types <datatype_index>` provided by SQL can be used.

> On the other hand, in PL/CSQL statements outside of Static/Dynamic SQL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, in Non-static/dynamic SQL,
```

Author: Static/Dynamic 으로 써 오던 것이 있어서 (고유명사) 그 부분만 바꾸어 반영하겠습니다.

Records of the same type can be compared using `=` and `!=` operators.
Here, "same type" means not only records derived from the same table, but also records from different tables whose corresponding field names and types match exactly.
The result of a `=` operation between two records is `TRUE` only if the `<=>` operation between all corresponding fields returns `TRUE`; otherwise, it returns `FALSE`.
The result of the `!=` operation is the logical opposite of the `=` operation.
Using `=` or `!=` between records of different types will result in a compile-time error.

.. code-block:: sql

    create table tblA(a INT, b CHAR, c VARCHAR);
    create table tblB(a INT, b CHAR, c VARCHAR);        -- tblA%ROWTYPE and tblB%ROWTYPE are of the same type
    create table tblC(aa INT, bb CHAR, cc VARCHAR);     -- tblA%ROWTYPE and tblC%ROWTYPE are not of the same type

    CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE test_record_equality AS
        r1 tblA%ROWTYPE;
        r2 tblB%ROWTYPE;
        r3 tblC%ROWTYPE;
    BEGIN
        ...
        if (r1 = r2) then       -- OK
        ...
        if (r1 = r3) then       -- Error
        ...
    END;

> Comparison operators other than `=` and `!=`, such as `<=>`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, and `>=`,

Reviewer: `=` 처럼 역따옴표로 표현되는 것이 맞는지 확인부탁드립니다.

> Comparison operators other than `=` and `!=`, such as `<=>`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, and `>=`,

Reviewer: 역따옴표를 사용하는 것이 맞나요 ?

    SELECT test_any_length('abcd');     -- Result: 'abcd'

Even when parameter and return types are declared using :ref:`%TYPE <percent_type>`,
the precision, scale, and length of the referenced original types are ignored,
and the behavior follows the rules described above.

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE tbl(p NUMERIC(3,2), q CHAR(3));

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION test_ptype_precision_scale(a tbl.p%TYPE) RETURN tbl.p%TYPE
    AS
    BEGIN
        RETURN a;
    END;

    SELECT test_ptype_precision_scale(1.23);      -- Result: 1.230000000000000
    SELECT test_ptype_precision_scale(1.234);     -- Result: 1.234000000000000
    SELECT test_ptype_precision_scale(1.2345);    -- Result: 1.234500000000000

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION test_ptype_length(a tbl.q%TYPE) RETURN tbl.q%TYPE
    AS
    BEGIN
        RETURN a;
    END;

    SELECT test_ptype_length('ab');       -- Result: 'ab'
    SELECT test_ptype_length('abc');      -- Result: 'abc'
    SELECT test_ptype_length('abcd');     -- Result: 'abcd'

Operators and Functions
========================

In Static/Dynamic SQL, all operators and functions provided by SQL can be used.

> On the other hand, in PL/CSQL statements *outside* Static/Dynamic SQL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, in Non-Static/Dynamic SQL statements,
```

Author: Static/Dynamic 으로 써 오던 것이 있어서 (고유명사) 그 부분만 바꾸어 반영하겠습니다.
